---
title: My First Article
author: Kevin Powell
date: 2021-05-01
tags: ["post", "featured"]
image: /assets/blog/article-1.jpg
imageAlt: This is a test
description: The Kedarkantha Peak is one of the most sought after snow trekking destinations in India. | Trek with HIMALAYAN HIKING CLUB
---

Overview

Region :- Uttarakhand&nbsp;<br>Duration :- 6 Days &nbsp;<br>Grade :- Easy To Moderate&nbsp;<br>Max Altitude :- 12,500 Ft. &nbsp;<br>Approx Trekking Km :- 33 Kms

Adorned with ravishing beauty of falling snow and fringed with pine trees, The&nbsp;Kedarkantha Peak&nbsp;is one of the most sought after snow trekking destinations in India. With falling winter snow it’s a mesmerizing pictorial view and what’s more attractive, is the view of the Mighty Himalayas from the trails right to the top. Nestled at a height of 3810 meters which is about 12,500 feet this is an ideal trekking trail which covers a consolidated distance of 20 kms. The distance is not much and the trekking trail is neither very difficult which enables even the first time trekkers to set on the adventure and enjoy the beauty of nature at its best. With charming and captivating sights of snow clapped Himalayas, the verdant greenery, lush landscapes, myriad collection of flora, frozen ponds, to the sights of mesmerizing peaks, this trek have all the delightful marvels that a trekker wish to experience and view in his journey. Not only for the adventure seekers and trekkers, to enjoy thrilling challenges, the&nbsp;Kedarkantha Trek&nbsp;is an ideal destination for the nature lovers to bask in the beauty of undisturbed nature and enjoy delightful and blissful moments with exhilarating experiences.<br>Based in Western Garhwal in the Uttarakashi district, the&nbsp;Kedarkantha Trek&nbsp;is known for being one of the easy treks of the country which can be attended by people who are in experienced trekkers and have no knowledge of prior trekking. However physical fitness is required where one should be able to jog at least for 4 kms in 30 minutes before committing for the trekking tour. As the altitude rises the air becomes thin and people needs to carry backpacks too, which can all be very difficult, without proper physical fitness.<br>Trekking in Uttarakhand&nbsp;is always a pleasure due to its ravishing beauty and panoramic natural views that cannot be matched with any other destinations within the country. But among all the fascinating locations and thrilling trekking sites available it is the snow treks of&nbsp;Kedarkantha&nbsp;which inspires every trekker a lot. In fact it has a lot of reasons of being such a terrific trek which makes it so popular among the enthusiastic travelers. The very first reason is the availability of snow till the end of April making it one of the best winter trek destination of all. And what more one can view the lovely snows at a height of only 10,000 feet lying at the base of the pine trees. The next reason for its popularity is the lovely campsites, where every site is unique in its own way and does not match the beauty with any other campsites in the journey. Another beauty of this&nbsp;trekking&nbsp;trail is that it starts from dense pine forest where one can begin the trekking trail walking over the bed brown dried leaves creating a unique experience and a magnificent view that is absolutely unparallel. Last but not the least is the splendid jaw dropping breath taking view of the famous snow clapped mountain summits that comes into view as soon as one steps in Kedarkantha base and the view gets more stunning which each step towards the summit. In a whole the trekking tour promises refreshing and heart filled pleasure which makes the destination so attractive to millions of visitors throughout the year<br>Though&nbsp;Kedarkantha trek&nbsp;can be conducted almost the whole year but the aspiring views that it provides in the winter months from December to April cannot be compared with summer times. The snow clapped trekking trails and the buckets of snow at the base of the pine trees are a fascinating beauty to savor and which remains only available during the winter days. In fact for the locals the winter months are a time for rejoice and they enjoy with a number of festivals during this time. However it is better to avoid the monsoon time for trekking in these trail.

Short Itinerary

Day 1: Arrival at Sankri<br>Day 2: Sankri to Juda-ka-Talab<br>Day 3: Juda-ka-Talab to Kedarkantha Base<br>Day 4: Kedarkantha base to Kedarkantha peak; descend to Hargaon camp<br>Day 5: Hargaon camp to Sankri<br>Day 6: Departure day (Sankri to Dehradun)<br><strong>Note:</strong>&nbsp;On Day 6, you’ll reach Dehradun between 6 pm and 7 pm. You can book your travel any time after 8 pm.

WEATHER DETAILS

In the initial days of the pre monsoon season (May-Jun) there will be snow along the latter part of the trail which generally melts by end June. Days are going to be sunny and warm (12-20 °C) while the night temperature at the highest campsite would be in the range of -2 to 6 °C. In the post monsoon season (Sep-Oct) there is hardly any snow at the start with possibility of snowfall towards the end of the season, which also melts very fast. The days are sunny with temperatures hovering around (10-16 °C) the evenings start getting cold with the onset of October and nights are comparatively colder (- 5 to 5 °C).<br>Please keep in mind that the above information is not exact and does not account for sudden changes. Whatever the temperatures and conditions rest assured we will be prepared to handle it with ease as we use equipment of very high specifications.


